first there were the leaked dms between
me and this girl that i met in london
and okay i admit i have been talking to
her recently
and for those of you who watch my
minecraft live streams you may have
noticed someone else
helping me and that person playing with
me in minecraft
was the girl from london that i
met up when i was back in england by
myself
and we were talking to each other we
were keeping in contact and
somehow i still don't understand how
this happened but my wife
found out about it and pictures of our
dms got leaked
to my wife and then the second thing
that happened was when i was meeting sam
somehow my wife got access into my ipad
and
found some videos and she basically saw
all of my dms
so if you're a girl and
you've vm me in the past
my wife has seen those dms now even
though those two things were pretty bad
i was still feeling fairly confident
that my wife would forgive me
but then there was a third thing the
swedish girl
and i think the swedish girl incident
was kind of like
final nail in the coffin someone
found me outside and took a picture of
me and this girl
and then he he's tried blackmailing me
demanding that i pay him
1 000 pounds or else he's going to send
it to jahiro my wife
[Music]
so for those reasons my wife said to me
that there's no way she could ever trust
me again and
to be honest i don't blame her it's
completely understandable i wouldn't
even trust myself
i just wasn't satisfied with that kind
of lifestyle
it was just not a very fulfilling kind
of lifestyle i was in her apartment
all day long every day just playing
rainbow six for hours and hours and
hours
and the only excitement the only
excitement i ever had was when some
attractive girl messaged me on instagram
and i just couldn't say
no stop sorry i'm married
we have this story in the english
language
of the boy who cried wolf
i think it would be more meaningful it
would be more salient
to many social problems in the 21st
century if actually it was
everyone else in the village who was
crying wolf
and not the boy right like there's a
there's a sort of
um boy who cries wolf effect
with these arguments against playing
video games these warnings
about playing videos and trying to
positively motivate people to quit
playing video games or overcome video
game addiction right
but it's not the boy who cried wolf it's
not that one person was saying there's a
wolf
again and again it's that the boy is
growing up and
everyone else is crying wolf all around
him and he knows
there are no walls he knows there's no
wolf so he he ignores or he goes out and
looks and he finds there's no wolf
people grow up hearing
ridiculous absurd dishonest arguments
against playing video games
they grow up being told that if you play
video games it'll make you into
a murderer or a psychopath a violent
criminal
a rage-a-holic you know and it's it's
not true
and many many of those things you will
have heard 100 times
are not true but as an adult you've got
to have the detachment
to listen to me to listen to each new
person you talk
to and weigh their argument on the basis
of its merits
right even if you've heard a hundred
other people give you ridiculous reasons
for why playing video games is a bad
idea or is the wrong choice to make in
your life
maybe today maybe you're going to hear
argument 101 maybe it's going to be
about right
see what i mean it's it's the boy who
cried wolf turned upside down inside out
i've talked to a lot of left-wing people
and they feel that they've already heard
a hundred arguments
against communism and that all of those
are equally invalid right it's it's the
boy who cried wolf but inside it's not
just one person
telling them look joseph stalin
was evil was killed millions of people
mao zedong was evil killed millions of
people
it's not just one person right they're
surrounded by people who are trying to
cry wolf trying to warn them
but probably those people don't really
know anything about the history of
communism they don't know
much about the history the philosophy of
the politics they can't speak on it the
way i can
so these people also they have a kind of
boy who cries
wolf effect right i'm surrounded by all
these warnings but all of them
seem equally irrational equally
unreasonable or even maybe factually
faulty
like the arguments against videos and
then they meet me
they talk to me and i have to say them
look even if you've heard a hundred bad
arguments
against communism i need you to put that
aside because i'm going to give you
argument number
101 i'm going to speak to you really
honestly and really earnestly
and you could really learn something
from this conversation if only you'll
listen
all right and you may go into this
conversation thinking that you're the
expert and i don't know what i'm talking
about
but i'm going to show you that you don't
know what you're talking about
because you've been asking the wrong
questions right
that's the situation with video games
it's not really that i know something
you don't know
it's that you have been asking the wrong
questions and a lot of the people around
you
like a lot of your parents and
grandparents and school teachers a lot
of them
were asking the wrong questions also so
they were giving you the wrong answers
they were giving you the wrong arguments
about what the problem with with video
games is all right
this guy daniel his youtube channel is
titled hiding in my room
um every stage of his life
has really been defined by video game
addiction
he wouldn't use the word addiction
himself but he has admitted and talked
about the fact that every
stage and every phase of his life has
largely consisted of him sitting alone
in a room
playing video games and even with his
divorce
he now says that his life didn't change
very much
because during his marriage he spent all
of his time
sitting alone in a room playing video
games and after
his divorce now he sits alone in a room
playing video games and there's no one
who meets him to eat dinner with him
afterward
but that's about it all right that's not
a big change
so he may not feel that he's a victim
of the video game culture um
but you know those those who think
they're happy
you know their stories are the most
tragic
the most terrible of all he also says
openly and i appreciate his honesty
it's really important that we have
youtube so people can come forward and
tell these kinds of stories
honestly in a way that they'd never be
told on cnn or nbc or hbo
this never appear on television or in
cinema or documentary film
all right i genuinely appreciate that he
has the honesty to say this
he talks about the total lack of
motivation he has in his life
for anything other than playing video
games including
improving his ability in japanese and he
was married to a japanese woman
she doesn't speak english they're only
speaking japanese
and i realize he doesn't quite connect
the dots
you know between the video game
addiction and the lack of motivation
let's okay i want to start with with
first principles i want to start with
the most fundamental
most profound problem here right playing
video games
trains us from a very early age
to think that life is about enjoyment
and happiness
that the purpose of life and living is
just to amuse yourself
is just to be happy and thus video games
are justified and vindicated
from our earliest childhood forward
as being the thing that will most
efficiently
make you happy right it's very very
difficult to justify
climbing a mountain in terms of
happiness
or entertainment value compared to
sitting on your couch and playing a
video game
and by the way i'm not i'm not here
endorsing climbing mountains you know
what when you really think about it
maybe climbing a mountain is a waste of
time sitting on your couch playing video
games
a waste of time also but like i i'm not
suggesting this is some simple
positive comparison no my point is
if life for you is about happiness
is about enjoyment is about
self-indulgence
then nothing else seems to make sense
right what do you what are you alive for
just to entertain yourself
just to amuse yourself to death now
there's a difference between me and
daniel
here daniel perceives himself
as lacking willpower daniel perceives
himself
as lacking motivation and i think he's
wrong on both counts
i think he has a lot of willpower i
think he has a lot of motivation
and that shows even when he's doing bad
or terrible things
right he's working hard at all these
things he is doing
like objectively playing a video game is
work it's completely counterproductive
work
but still it's work right all the energy
and effort he put
into cheating on his wife it's hard work
all the energy and effort he puts into
youtube and he has an only fans and all
this stuff and he travels the world
he's working hard he's working hard
at a life of totally meaningless
self-indulgence right he's working hard
just to make himself happy and also by
the same token he's working hard just to
make himself miserable
he's working hard just to sit there and
complain that he's been sitting alone in
a room doing nothing
playing video games all day right like i
get i get both sides of it because it's
a very hollow
very shallow sort of happiness right
but i mean video games
condition us to accept this most
fundamental most simple and ins
it's a premise that's so hard to escape
it's so hard to struggle your way out of
because you don't even perceive it as
being something you believe in once
you've accepted it they condition us to
accept
that the meaning of life is happiness is
entertainment
is self-indulgence okay if you were born
and raised catholic
at least you have an idea of catholicism
as an institution as a tradition
that's not who you are right it's not
just
how you perceive the world implicitly
and it's conceivable to you
that you could stop going to the
catholic church and you could go to some
other church
or you could stop going to the catholic
church so you can stay at home and play
video games
like there's there's an awareness of an
option there
there's an awareness of a choice you can
make
right of a change you could make in your
own life
right but being conditioned by video
games in this way
creates the perception that the meaning
of life
is your own happiness is your own
entertainment as your own
self-indulgence
and you can't see it as something
separate from yourself you can't feel it
as something from
separate from reality it's not a church
you ever go to
it's a church you never leave i just
didn't have the willpower to say
no sorry i'm a loyal devoted husband
please don't message me again
i didn't have the strength to do that
and my wife found out about it
and well this is the result
life is not about toys
life is not about playing with toys
life is not about sports it's not about
watching sports
it's not about playing sports
video games to an extent much more
profound
than toys sports or gambling
from my generation in the 21st century
right now they've dragged people into
this perception of the world
as if life really is
about and for nothing more
than playing with toys than playing
games
one of the surest signs of video game
addiction is that you
rush to eat your meals as quickly as
possible
so you can get back to playing the game
everything else in your life
becomes compressed in the shortest span
of time possible because the game is not
a game anymore
right the game is your real life the
game
is for you the meaning of life and by
the way all the crap i do with my time
it's susceptible to the same analysis
it's susceptible
to the same condemnation back when i was
studying buddhist philosophy
you could say to me bro this is your
life
this is the meaning of life you this has
taken over your life sure
and it was true and it's it's a bad
thing
there's good and bad to it it's better
than spending five years
playing rainbow six or you know playing
video games
sure but you know what like
what i do with my time believe me i'm
self-critical
i'm not sitting here pretending that
what i do is somehow
black and white totally different from
playing
video games but even if we're into
shades of grey
we need to take very very seriously
these differences
in shades of grey once people have been
conditioned in this way
to accept that the meaning of life is
nothing but making themselves happy
their amusement their entertainment
their self-indulgence play
games once they've taken that step right
they're no longer trying to have a
meaningful life
they're no longer even trying to be
intelligent
so what kind of a life do they end up
leading a meaningless life
and an unintelligent life
and then they're trapped in a
self-loathing
cycle of being aware that what they're
devoted to
what they do with their time is
fundamentally childish
is fundamentally worthless is
fundamentally pointless
right they're not researching the cure
for cancer they're not researching the
history of slavery
in thailand laos and cambodia that's
right i say i research buddhism but
there are all kinds of other
political stories whatever it was that
was meaningful to me in those years of
my life
they're not doing something that matters
to
anyone and on some level they're aware
it doesn't even matter
to themselves they've remained like a
pig in its pig pen
they've remained like an infant in a
playpen
they've continued living a life that is
fundamentally
meaningless rather than meaningful
unintelligent
intellectually null and void then what's
the next step
after that i think you see that in the
life of david
this youtuber uh his youtube channel is
called hiding hiding in my room
i think you see the way in which he
still
reaches out for meaning he reaches out
for challenges
he reaches out for love sometimes he
rages against the bars of this cage that
he has locked himself inside
and now that i look at my life right now
at this moment
to be honest i don't really feel like my
life is very different to how it used to
be
i'm still just staying at home most of
the time playing games
making videos going out shopping it's
just that i'm
by myself for most of the time and i
don't have any of the problems or the
arguments or the fighting
that i have to deal with when i was
married
on some level to some extent he knows
there is a real life worth living
somewhere
he may not even be able to imagine
what it is but he knows
this isn't it
you really need dedication and
determination to
consistently make videos all the time
every day every week every month for
years upon years upon years and
not getting tired with it not giving up